# Terminology

Term | Description
---- | -----------
zkSNARK | Proof construction where one can prove possession of certain information, e.g. a secret key, without revealing that information, and without any interaction between the prover and verifier.
Stake | Financial or social stake required for registering in the RLN applications. Common stake examples are: locking cryptocurrency (financial), linking reputable social identity.
Identity secret | An array of two unique random components (identity nullifier and identity trapdoor), which must be kept private by the user. Secret hash and identity commitment are derived from this array.
Identity nullifier | Random 32 byte value used as component for identity secret generation.
Identity trapdoor | Random 32 byte value used as component for identity secret generation.
Identity secret hash | The hash of the identity secret, obtained using the Poseidon hash function. It is used for deriving the identity commitment of the user, and as a private input for zk proof generation. The secret hash should be kept private by the user.
Identity commitment | Hash obtained from the Identity secret hash by using the poseidon hash function. It is used by the users for registering in the protocol.
Signal | The message generated by a user. It is an arbitrary bit string that may represent a chat message, a URL request, protobuf message, etc.
Signal hash | Keccak hash of the signal, used as an input in the RLN circuit.
RLN Identifier | Random finite field value unique per RLN app. It is used for additional cross-application security. The role of the RLN identifier is protection of the user secrets being compromised if signals are being generated with the same credentials at different apps.
RLN membership tree | Merkle tree data structure, filled with identity commitments of the users. Serves as a data structure that ensures user registrations.
Merkle proof | Proof that a user is member of the RLN membership tree.